Hi everyone!
In this video we will learn together how to change list items.
First, change item value.
To change the value of a specific item, we refer to the index number.
Here we have a list with three items.
We change the second item banana.
Refer to the index one.
The new list.
It will contain apple, blackcurrant and cherry.
Second, change a range of item values to change the value of items within a specific range.
We define a list with the new values, and we refer to the range of index number where you want to insert
the new values.
We define our new lists, and after that we refer the range one colon three where you want to insert
The index one here is banana, the index two it will be cherry, the index three orange.
But always the end value is not included.
We will replace the second and the third item by new items blackcurrant and watermelon.
The new list will contain apple, blackcurrant, watermelon, orange, kiwi and mango.
If you insert more items than you replace, the new items will be inserted where you specified and the
remaining items will move accordingly.
Here we change the second item banana, with two new items blackcurrant and Watermelon.
One, two.
This means the item banana two is not included.
The new list will contain apple, blackcurrant, watermelon and cherry.
If you insert less item than you replace, the new item will be inserted where you specified and the
remaining item will move accordingly.
Here we replace two items banana and cherry and exit by one colon three, which means banana.
And the third item, cherry.
We replace it by only one item.
The new list will contain apple.
Watermelon.
The length move from 3 to 2.
Third section.
Insert items to insert a new list item without replacing any of the existing value.
We can use the insert method.
The insert method inserts an item at the specified index.
Here we insert watermelon as the third item indexed by two.
Apple has the index zero.
Banana has the index one.
Cherry has the index two.
We insert a new item watermelon in the index two, and the cherry will take the index three.
As a result of the example above, the list will now contain four items Apple, banana, watermelon,
and cherry.
Let's go to PyCharm and do some practice to understand more how to change list items.
First, change item value referring to the index number.
Here we replace the second item banana by a new item Blackcurrent.
The new list.
It will be apple, blackcurrant and cherry.
Let's execute the code.
This is the result.
Apple.
Blackcurrant.
The new item and the cherry.
Change a range of item values.
To change a range of item value, we prepare a new list and we specify the range of index, the start
and the end value.
Here we will update the range of index one until three one.
It will be banana, two it will be cherry three, which is orange is not included here.
We will replace the second and the third item by new.
Two items blackcurrant and watermelon.
The length of the list.
It will remain the same.
Why?
Because we are replacing two items by two new items.
The result?
It will be Apple.
Blackcurrant.
Watermelon.
And after that orange and kiwi.
Let's execute the code and see the result.
What will be the result?
The length of items before change and after the change is the same because we change it to items by
new to items.
Apple.
Blackcurrant.
Watermelon.
The new items and the old items.
Orange and kiwi.
The length of the list will change when the number of items insert does not match the number of items
replaced.
In our first example, We changed two items.
Buy two new items.
The length remained the same, but there are two cases when the length changed.
First case.
Insert more items than you replace in the second case.
Insert less items than you replace.
Let's start by the first case.
Insert more items than you replace.
Here we will replace the second item.
Banana.
Buy two new items.
The length of the list is three.
After the change the length of the list it will be four.
Let's execute the code.
And see the result.
The length of the list is three.
We changed the item banana.
Buy two new items.
Blackcurrant and watermelon.
Cherry.
Take the third index From 2 to 3, and the length of the list is four.
Let's go to the second case.
Case two insert less items than you replace.
Here we will replace the second and the third item by only one item.
Watermelon one.
It will be banana.
Two it will be cherry.
We will replace it by only one item.
Watermelon.
The new list will contain apple and watermelon.
The length move from 3 to 2.
Let's execute the code and see the result.
Number of items before change is three.
Apple.
Banana.
Cherry.
After we do the change, the new list contain apple and watermelon.
The number of items after change is two.
In the third section, insert items to insert new items.
We use the method insert referring to the index number.
Here we will insert a new item in the index two.
The result.
It will be a new list which contain Apple, banana.
Watermelon which take the place of cherry and cherry will take the index three.
Let's execute the code.
The result is apple, banana, watermelon and cherry.
In the first and the second section.
We do the replacing of existing item, the first by value, the second by range of index, and in the
third section we insert the new item without replacing any existing item.
That's it for this video.